- #cover Cover Letter
	- Name of the company -> attention to details
	- Salutation - who it's going to, 'to whom it may concern' is BLEH
	- Skills - match what the requirements are, and what they're looking for., key responsibilities
	- add some research in the company
	- editing - look over everything, no typos, grammar errors, etc.
- #genre analyzing a new genre (outline)
	- focus on style, sentence length, kind, complexity, word choicea dn apragraph length
	- Focus on structure - how content is organized, divided into secitons, introduced, length of sections, and what content appears
	- focus on register - formality or informality, the use on contractions
	- sentence type, declarative(It's noon, I'm asleep.), interrogative(Who's up before noon?), imperative (don't wake me before noon.)
- topic sentences - at the beginning of the paragraph, sets the topic of the paragraph, drives the paragraph.
- organizational markers - transitional elements, what sort of phrases are used to move between topics?
- application letters -
	- interdependence of documents, job ad lists position details, app letter responds, resume accompanies app letter
	- Distinguish between major and minor qualifications/desirables.
	- assess how well your qualifications and experience match the major ones listed.
	- turn things into arguments, app letters are sales docs, make an argument with evidence to show your app deserves consideration
	- not resumes, points to resume. highlights how you help the org, how you're different, that you know something about the org
	- good letters-
		- specific person, state position, qualifications, how you're different, show knowledge, refer to enclosed, ask for interview, list contact info
	- First paragraph - apply for job, say where you saw it, state briefly major quals
	- Second paragraph - details/evidence to develop major quals,
	- third - explain additional qualifications, emphasize how you're the best, show some knowledge about org
	- final - request interview, refer to resume, end positively.
- good sentences
	- have clarity, message is clear
	- have variety - readers appreciate changes in delivery
	- what can sentances do?
		- |purpose|type| symbol|
		  |ask a question|interrogative|?|
		  |express strong emotion|excamatory|!|
		  |request or issue commands|imperative|.!|
		  |state facts or share info|declarative|.|
	- active v passive voice -
		- Bob threw a stone at the window - active, we know about Bob since he's the subject
		- A stone was thrown at the window by Bob. - hiding bob, passive,
	- Parallel structure -
		- Conclusive DNA evidence, a witness who was credible, and recovering the stolen property made a strong case for the prosectution - not parallel, they don't sound or look balanced.
		- Conclusive DNA *evidence*, a credible *witness*, and the *recovery* of stolen property...
	- **Active Voice**
	  **Parallel structure!**
- plain language -
	- writing or design that makes info available to wide audience
	- organized in ways that make sence, strriaght forward/concrete words, adapt message to the reading abilities of the user
	- shorten sentences, but don't get rid of the meaning - "due to the fact that" can become "because"
	- vary sentence length/structure
- "X, Y, and Z" is different from "X, Y and Z", in the second one, Y and Z are one thing.
- Check book for the format to header/address/etc.
-
	-