- #definition system parts
	- Purpose - What is the system &/or its parts trying to achieve?
	- Self organization - The system can act without direction
	- Adaptation - Systems can learn and respond to conditions
	- Emergence - Lower level interactions can create unique outcomes
- To understand systems behaviours #definition
	- Boundaries - where does the system stop being a system?
		- Systems boundaries - where does the system end and the next one begin?
			- Flow of parts in and out of the system?
			- What is the purpose of that system?
		- Analytical boundaries
			- Where does our study stop? What's included and excluded?
			- understanding
			- explaination
	- Rules and structures - What are the formal and informal ways the system in structured?
	- Dynamics - How do variables behave internally? over time? is it predictable?
- #definition Stock and Flow
	- How much of any part is in a system? If it changes - it is considered a variable.
	- Flow rate refers to how much and how quickly those variables change.
	- Bathtub example. the tub is the system, the water can come in from the tap at different rates, and leave the bathtub through the drain.
- #definition Boundaries #boundaries
	- the point at which we argue that the relationship between parts is too weak, limited to influence/contribute to the outcome or purpose of the system.
	- Can be fixed and hard, permeable, or even theoretical.
- #definition  Spectrum of systems #boundaries
	- no boundaries
		- chaotic system
		- there are no rules, controls or clear channels through which parts travel into/out of the system.
	- permeable boundaries
		- complex open system - Most human systems exist here
		- rules, controls and challenges exist to affect who, what, when and how much of any parts of the system can come, leave.
	- Closed system
		- nothing can come or leave
		- the system must sustain itself entirely on what it produces itself.
- #boundaries
	- What happens?
		- Define membership - who is one of *us*?
		- Determine the flow rate and characteristics of people, things and even ideas coming into and out of a given system
		- Determine the edges of control/power/responsibility
	- Why?
		- What is the systems purpose?
		- What are the systems goals?
		- What are the internal and external signals the system may be receiving?
		- How might people (in and out of power) be interpreting those signals? sense-making, place making.
- #boundaries
	- some boundaries can be tighented or loosened to achieve a particular goal, e.g. tariffs/trade agreements can affect the national systems, and be influenced.
	- Some boundaries can not be affected, or harder to affect. the ocean and mountains limit Vancouvers growth and affect the housing crisis
	- Some boundaries are *emergent* and hard to adjust quickly, attitudes about immigration and children affect integration and population growth.
- System ingredients:
	- Determine the systems overarching purpose and/or your question/goal.
	  logseq.order-list-type:: number
	- Determine if there are hard/unambiguous stops
	  logseq.order-list-type:: number
		- Natural
		  logseq.order-list-type:: number
		- legal
		  logseq.order-list-type:: number
		- political
		  logseq.order-list-type:: number
		- cultural
		  logseq.order-list-type:: number
	- Explore what might be ambiguous links
	  logseq.order-list-type:: number
		- trade
		  logseq.order-list-type:: number
		- information
		  logseq.order-list-type:: number
		- physical movement
		  logseq.order-list-type:: number
	- Test it out
	  logseq.order-list-type:: number
		- Do new connections help you better understand the purpose or question? Can/do new relationship affect that pupose?
		  logseq.order-list-type:: number
- mru: education
	- currie barracks, rutland park, lincoln park, glenmore/crowchild physical breaks
	- fire code, prov/federal law
	- fed actions/base grants, int'l students
	- cultural boundaries - values around higher edu/post second edu
	- ambiguous links - students, tuition, degree reqs, faculty, gpa
	- other things - treaty 7 lands, private industry, code of conduct, alumni, donors,
- Stampede: Stimulate calgary economy
	- Hard unambiguous boundaries:
		- Stampede grounds, river, city borders,
	- Legal boundaries:
		- Regulation about how many people can gather, capacity of buildings/hotels.
		- Noise bylaws
		- Age
		- alcohol regulations, when, how much, where,
		- Animal laws, animal abuse/animal action
		- 'safety' or anti-vagrancy laws
	- Political boundaries:
		- Stampede is a non-profit org, so no political implications
	- Cultural boundaries:
		- music, clothes, advertisments, wall paintings/window paintings, presence of the word 'yahoo'
	- affects the flow:
		- Ticket/hand stamp prices
		- family day/free morning
		- registration
		- hotel rooms
-
	-
-