- #traps Thinking that the lifeworld consequences of a tech are principally related to its functional capability (FC)
	- #definition Functional Capability - What it is intended to do?  What was it designed for?
	- Stove - FC is to heat pots and pans to heat food or liquids.
	- Car - FC is to transport individual things and people and is individually controlled.
		- Something like after market rims is separate from the FC of the car.
	- For decades the US Dept of Labor kept stats on the average hours of work spent on housework by 'housewives'.
	- FC of household tech such as vacuum cleaners, dishwashers, cloths washers would be to reduce labor.
		- [[draws/2025-01-15-14-42-46.excalidraw]]
		-
	- Cowen, 'less work for mother?' tries to explain why hours increased with household tech adoption.  Changes caused people to launder clothes more often, changed responsilibity from milk-man, egg-delivery, knife sharpener, to one 'housewife',
		- Increase in typing hours with advent of word processor as the work shifts from professional typists to wide adoption.  Increase in errors, and inline changes produced by ease of changes and low-responsibility
	- "It was easy to predict the automobile in the 1880's.  no one predicted, however, the traffic jam" - Isaac Asimov
		- Existing model of individual transportation.  mechanization, mass production, synthetic materials, rubber wheels/tyres.
		- It's very difficult to predict, or even think about, future consequences.
			- Why? because it requires in-depth social and historical knowledge.  Knowledge about context, human behaviour, and *a bit of luck*.
			- referred to in Sociology as the problem of 'unintended consequences'
		- Increase in chauffeurs and farmers (due to belief that automobile would result in a decentralised urban experience, instead we got suburbs)
- #definition Unintended Consequences
	- Unexpected Benefit
	- Unexpected Drawback
	- Perverse outcome [opposite of what was intended]
	- human systems are *complex*.
		- easy task [follow a recipe/algorithm/illustration, baking a cake]
		- complicated tasks [follow a complicated recipe or set of instructions, build an engine]
		- complex tasks [raising a child, long, few instructions, unexpected things happen]
-
	-
-
	-