- #traps Overstating the revolutionary nature of current tech change.
	- how do we determine the quantity of technological innovation?
		- We could count:
			- Breakthrough Patents - a new mousetrap versus the idea of a mouse trap.  In the 1990's, patents were expanded to include things like business ideas.
			  logseq.order-list-type:: number
			- Proxy measure - job titles - new titles generated during a time period
			  logseq.order-list-type:: number
			- GDP/ Total factor of productivity - 
			  logseq.order-list-type:: number
	- Lots of interesting evidence which suggests a slowing of the rate of change.
- #history Computer history
	- Focus on the invention of the computer and what led to it?
		- 1943,1944,1946,1949, depending on who you ask
	- Prehistory/precursors of modern computers
	- 1950's-1960's, when the computer industry was created.
- #history #first First computer
	- reliant on a number of innovations
		- Mechanical Calculator to add/subtract/multiply/divide
		  logseq.order-list-type:: number
			- Pascaline, invented by Blaise Pascal 1640's
		- Mechanical control devices, player piano, textile control using punch cards etc
		  logseq.order-list-type:: number
			- Record player - Separation of the hardware (player) and the software (records)
		- So-called scientific management of labour (Taylorism or Fordism)
		  logseq.order-list-type:: number
			- Making work 'algorithmic'
			- Frederick Taylor credited for the articulation of a set of work practices that used the subdivision of work tasks.
		- *Tabulating / data processing machines with punched cards*
		  logseq.order-list-type:: number
			- US constitution mandates that the government run a census every 10 years.
			- The 1880 census took 7 years to complete.  It was out of date by the time it was done.
			- In 1890 census, the census bureau sponsored a competition for a solution to the problem.
			- Herman Hollerith, a german immigrant, won the competition. Paper inout->input punches->punched cards-> tabulating mathing-> output.
			- 1890 census was completed in 7 months.
			- Census bureau didn't 'keep' the technology, but allowed Hollerith to patent/monetize it.
			- Hollerith formed a company, later renamed the company to 'International business Machines' IBM
		- Cryptography machines
		  logseq.order-list-type:: number
			- both encrypting and decrypting machines
			- required a combination of mechanical and mathematical processing
		- Data processing/calculating automation
		  logseq.order-list-type:: number
			- Algorithmic approaches to arithmetic/ intellectual labour
			- 1920/30's, the word 'computer' referred to people who performed complex calculations by following an algorithm.
			-
		- Intellectual breakthroughs
		  logseq.order-list-type:: number
			- Church/turing thesis
				- Alphonso Church/Alan Turing - both published papers in 1936 arguing effective computation(solvable computation) using natural numbers could be solved algebraically.
				- Church proved this mathematically(mathematical proof) , Turing provided model for how this could work.
				- Turing called it Universal Machine, we call it a Turing Machine.
					- 1. Infinite roll of tape
					- 2. each cell of tape has a symbol
					- 3. has a finite table of instructions
					- 4. read/write head
					- Turing claimed that a person with a pad of paper, a pencil, an eraser, and a table of instructions (strictly followed) is a universal machine.
					- Turing claimed that with enough detail in the instructions, no understanding of the problem is required.
					- Church/Turing thesis proved a mechanical computer is possible and useful.
					-
			- WW2 provided the context and incentives for electronic computing to be developed.
				- Female computer were used to calculate artillery tables and decrypt german messages.
				- changes to guns/ propellant/shells etc would tie up a hundred computers for a month to generate a 3000 entry firing table.
			- 1942 University of Pennsylvania developed ENIAC with funding from the US government.
	- 1946 UNIVAC is announced as first commercially available computer, 1949 companies could buy it, shipped closer to 1951
	- Von Neumann arch - concept of a memory unit could store both the data and the software - stored program concept.  turing wrote similar papers, but info was not released until 1990's.
	-
-
-
-
-
- #history #babbage Babbage was abolitionist, worked to maintain plantation profits in the absence of slave, since slavery proponents argued that elimination of slavery would wreck british economy.  Babbage thought that strict worker control management that emphasized small divisions of labour with machinery would ensure satisfactory results.
-
	-
	- logseq.order-list-type:: number
-