- #ethics
	- From the 16th to 17th centuries, Europe experienced a series of devastating wars, ostensibly motivated by different forms of christian religious belief.
	- Same time, Europeans began to experience a wider range of beliefs and ideas due to transatlantic trade and conquest.
	- by the 18th century, there was an interest in articulating ethical systems what were not based on religion or custom.
	- Alternately, others sometimes argued that morality is only cultural, and contingent - meaning it isn't possible to deduce as ethics $\rightarrow$ Sometimes referred to today as **cultural relativism** or a kid of anti-ethics.
- #ethics Ethical systems
	- Rights based ethics
	  logseq.order-list-type:: number
		- In an ethics based on rights, the rights established by a society are protected and given the highest priority.
		- 'Rights' is a concept came out from a thought experiment called the state of nature(SoN).  Life without society/heirarchy/etc.
		- Thomas Hobbes (mid 17th century)
			- SoN is 'nasty, brutish and short', a kind of war of all against all
			- in SoN, people agree to a social contract in which they agree to follow the rules set by a single ruler.  we do have the right to expect life.
		- John Locke (late 17th Century)
			- SoN is not that bad, but that we agree to a social contract, and delegate authority in exchange for a right to life, liberty and property.
			- American constitution/bill of rights is based on Locke
		- Jean Jacques Rousseau (later 18th century)
			- Argued SoN was better than not be in SoN.
			- Society is imposed by force.
		- John Rawls (late 20th century)
			- in his book A theory of Justice" 1971, Rawls made a new version of the SoN thought experiment, imagine you had no foreknowledge of your gender, nationality, race, class, etc... in this case, what rights would you want?
			- Argued that we would want a more expansive set of rights that are principally **positive rights** and not **negative rights**
				- Positive Rights - Right to...
				- Negative Rights - Right From...
		- Rights based conceptions of ethics then, can be narrow or quite broad.
		- Constitutions enshrine some rights, while others are articulated in case law over time.
		- Rights enjoy broad support of its citizens and have legal cases to help conceptualize what to do when rights conflict.
		- How do judges adjudicate between conflicting rights?
			- historical precedence [case law]
			- other ethical systems
		- Another problem, the reward for 'defecting' or [prisoners dilemma]
			- Incentive to not follow the rules/rights
	- Kantian/Universalism
	  logseq.order-list-type:: number
		- Immanual Kant (late 18th C)
			- Philosopher who wanted to construct an ethics that was discovered by reason **and** not based on religion/authority/custom
			- When faced with a situation where one is torn between what we want to do and what we **ought** to do, we must always follow the **ought** (i.e. obligation or duty)
			- articulated two key principles or 'catagorical imperatives'
				- principle of universality
					- act only from moral rules that you would wish to be universally followed by everyone
				- Principle of humanity
					- act so that you treat **both** yourself and others has ends not means.
						- End - goal, Means - how to achieve a goal
					- others are just as important as you, you don't get a priviledged place in the ethical system, all others are in that same place.
			- Kantian position has some limits;
				- Sometimes following duties leads to poor outcomes. (Stanislov Petrov avoided nuclear war by not triggering defenses in 1983 false alarm of soviet)
				- Is your happiness unimportant to the ethical system? Shouldn't your happiness play some role?
				- Ideology - duties may just be an expression of power.
	- Utilitarianism/Consequentialism
	  logseq.order-list-type:: number
		- Jeremy Bentham (18th Century)
			- Contemporary of Kant, had a similar goal
			- his insight was that we all want happiness/pleasure, and that we should choose the option that maximizes the happiness for all affected parties.
			- he called it a 'calculus' and believed it could be calculated
			- focus on the ultimate consequences of an action
			- A number of issues;
				- determining the consequences is tricky
				- arbitrary to calculate or assign happiness to outcomes
			- The Trolley Problem comes in here, throw the switch and kill one dude and save others, or let the train hit a bunch of people
				- While most people will make the ethical choice based on consequences, in real life situations most people do not. and use Kantian Universalism
			-
				-
					-
-
-
-
-
-
-