- #traps Common traps when thinking about Tech
- #traps Best way through, may not be the best way through, compare thinking to a mountain trail, sometimes the straight path is a trap, sometimes it's nice an d clear.
- #traps Thinking that tech is the only driver of change in the lifeworld.
	- #definition Lifeworld - Combination of society and the individual/psychology.
	- Common view is that a change in tech 'strikes' the lifeworld, and changes it.  Is this true?
		- Narrative pushed by tech marketing.
	- Tech affects the lifeworld, but it might not be as important as we assume.
	- Important tech often get adopted because they *support* an already existing need.
	- Push model of change tech pushes social changes (Tech --pushes--> Social Change)
	- Pull model tech is pulled by social needs/change (Tech <- pulling-- Social needs/change)
- #traps Thinking that any given tech is a neutral tool
	- #definition  neutral tool - Doesn't have predetermined social effects, tech isn't good/bad in itself, there are only 'bad' uses
	- Winner argues that some  tech inevitably priviledge certain outcomes that benefit certain people and disadvantage others. (Do Artifacts have Politics?)
	- Robert Moses (designed low bridges in New York)
		- If the city wanted to prevent poor people from going to the public beaches, politics would get involved, rules, laws, etc.
		- Moses designed the bridges in such a way to form a barrier against trucks and busses, and this a barrier against poorer people/hispanic/black ppl
		- Moses used tech to achieve the end without politics.
	- Mechanical Tomato harvester - advantage to farmer in faster harvesting, but the people who were picking tomatoes have to go somewhere or do something
		- 1950's, thousands of tomato farms in california
		- 1970's less than 100, harvester tech went to people who had money, who could buy more land and did more work in less time. also created a need for refrigeration and transportation
- #important Technologies are inheriently political. Tehcnologies have politics when
	- They prevent certain social outcomes within a commmunity (Robert moses bridges/freeways)
	- They privilege specific social outcomes (Mechanised tomato harvester + freeways)
-
-