- #thinking #definition Contingency - things that happened that were a little random, but had an oversized affect on the path of technology
- #thinking #definition Technological momentum - Early on, a tech is strongly affects by social forces, but once it is entrenched and widely used, social forces have less effect on it.
- #ethics The main governance bodies in computing ACM IEEE have recommended for a few decades that every computer degree should have a course similar to 3309.  This type of course or subject is often referred to more generall as 'computer ethics'
- #ethics Ethics Vs. morality
	- Often treated as synonyms
	- Ethics are often more societal based, morality is more an individuals internal values
		- Morality may be derived from an ethical system or from a custom/religion/culture
		- Ethics can be thought of more as principles, systems or standards 'beyond' the self.
	- One differentiation is that ethics can be taught, whereas morality is more learned through experience or upbringing.
- You are on the board of directors of a software consulting company in the late 1980's.  You're just finishing a lucrative contract for Big Bank Corp.  The software to be delivered is a security system.  The contract stipulated large financial penalties for missing the deadline, which is tomorrow morning.  Thankfully the project is 99.8% completed. The company financial situation is dire, to save costs, the entire dev team on the project has been let go.  One of the programmers let go deletes all the source code.  Next closest backup is 30 days ago.   The programmer can not be found.  5 million contract, with 0.5 mill a week penalty
- The early 2000's, a sessional instructor was teaching a class called Network Security.  He often bragged that his labs security was unbreakable.  he had an unpleasant personality.  A student - 'Fred'.  Everyone has administrative rights to the computer, because it's a network course and this was necessary.  Fred installs a keylogger on every computer, and Fred gets his password.  Fred logs in as the instructor and resets a log in message to display saying the security was broken.  Fred brags to some people, and he gets ratted out by a bunch of other students.  The instructor wants to have Fred kicked out, so he goes to the Dean.  The Dean didn't like conflict.
-
-
-
-
-